# SC Shortname

Device sensors

# SC Text

All functionality of the content can be operated without requiring specific device sensor information unless the device sensor is essential for the function and not using it would invalidate the activity.

Note 1: device sensor information includes, but is not limited to, additional input values such as tilt, orientation, proximity.

# Suggestion for Priority Level (A/AA/AAA)

Level A

# Related Glossary additions or changes

N/A

# What Principle and Guideline the SC falls within.

Principle 2, *new* Guideline "Additional sensor inputs"

# Description

Devices may have sensors that act as inputs - e.g., a tilt/orientation sensor on a mobile/tablet that allows the user to change the layout of content (landscape or portrait) simply by changing the orientation of the device in space. Not all devices may have these sensors. Even when the device has these sensors, the user may not be able to operate them (either not at all, or not precisely enough). Functionality must therefore be implemented in a way that other means are available to activate the function that do not rely on additional sensor input.

## Examples
* After text input in a field, shaking a device shows a dialog offering users the option undo the input or cancel. The backspace / delete key of the onscreen keyboard offers an equivalent alternative for deleting the text input.

# Benefits

Users with disabilities may be unable to perform particular actions impacting on sensors (such as tilting or shaking) because the device may be mounted or users may be physically unable to perform the necessary action. This success scriterion ensures that users can still operate all functionality (e.g.,, via touch or voice input) without relying on sensor input. All users benefit from this, including users who are temporarily unable to hold and move the device because their hands are occupied with some other activity.

# Testability

Manual test - if the content provides functionality tied to particular sensors, ensure that an alternative method is available to trigger the same functionality without the use of these sensors.

## Procedure
For each function that can activated via additional sensor input:

 1. check that there is an alternative accessibility supported method to activate the function

## Expected Results
 * All checks above are true

# Techniques

Functionality/content must not solely rely on device inputs (e.g. an alternative which does not require the user to manipulate their device/use these device inputs must be available)
