# SC Shortname

Orientation

# SC Text

Content is not locked to a specific orientation, and functionality of the content is operable in all orientations, except where orientation is essential for use of the content.

# Suggestion for Priority Level (A/AA/AAA)

Level AA

# Related Glossary additions or changes

Essential - A particular presentation of content is essential to the information being conveyed. (WCAG 2.0 Definition) 
Examples of essential
 - banking site where a check deposit has to be in a certain orientation
 - piano app in landscape mode

# What Principle and Guideline the SC falls within.

Principle 2: Operable

New Guideline: Make content usable in device orientations.

# Description

Some mobile applications automatically set the screen to a particular display orientation (landscape or portrait view) and expect that users will respond by rotating the mobile device to match. However, some users have their mobile devices mounted in a fixed orientation (e.g. on the arm of a power wheelchair). Therefore, mobile applications need to support both orientations by making sure content and functionality is available in each orientation. Due to differences in layout, the way content and functionality are implemented may differ between orientations. For example, a horizontal navigation bar shown in landscape view may in portrait view turn into one button that can be expanded to reveal navigation options. When a particular orientation is essential, the user needs to be advised of the orientation requirements.

## Examples of problems

Banking website locked in portrait mode
iOS home screen on the iPhone vs. iPad

# Benefits

Users with dexterity impairments, who have a mounted mobile device will be able to use the content in their fixed orientation

# Testability

- Turn the device into portrait orientation.
- Turn the device into landscape orientation
- Check all content and functionality is available in both orientations.

In situations where an on-screen keyboard may be used, the on-screen keyobard should be displayed to ensure that content and functionality is not blocked in different orientations.

Note: the content does not need to be in the same order for different orientations. It does need to meet SC 1.3.2 and SC 2.4.3 and be in a meaningful sequence.

# Techniques

Technique: Using CSS to set the orientation to allow both landscape and portrait.

Technique: Use show/hide controls to allow access to content in different orientations

Technique: Use of the flexible box model to change the meaningful sequence order of content to match the visual order in different orientations.

Failure: Locking the orientation

Failure: Functionality is only available in one orientation.

